
# Seed-Plantation-Drone-Simulation
In this project work, we have designed an algorithm to spray seeds at regular intervals in fields through drone whose parameters are provided by the user. 
The time complexity of the proposed algorithm is O((l/d)^2) where l is the side of the fitted square and d is the distance between seeds dropped. So basically the proposed algorithm works in O(n^2).

### Installation Guide
Walkthrough to set up the PC for successful execution 

#### Install the package updates on your linux system:
`sudo apt-get update`

#### Install python2 if not already installed:
`sudo apt install python2` 

#### DroneKit-Python and the dronekit-sitl simulator are installed from pip on all platforms. On Linux you will first need to install pip and python-dev: 
`sudo apt-get install python-pip python-dev`

`pip install dronekit`

#### Install DroneKit – SITL:
`pip install dronekit-sitl -UI`

#### Install MAVProxy:
`pip install MAVProxy` 

#### Install APMPlanner2 
Download the latest deb file for your machine from: 
`firmware.ardupilot.org/Tools/APMPlanner` 
 
#### Open a terminal window and go to the location where you downloaded the .deb file from step 2 and type the following command: 
`sudo apt-get -f install`  
`sudo dpkg -i apm_planner*.deb` 

### Running the code 

#### Method 1:  Directly running the python scripts:
`python filename.py`   

#### Method 2: Run the APM Planner2 and minimize it.  Open 3 terminals and execute each of the following in each terminal: 
 
#### a) First run the DroneKit simulator with desired vehicle and its attributes. 
`dronekit-sitl copter --home=10.0,20.0,0,180` 

Above command runs the start the simulation with copter at home location (latitude = 10.0 and longitude = 20.0 in above command) and 0 and 180 are copter parameters like model etc. It starts the SITL connection at: tcp:127.0.0.1:5760  
 
#### b) Use MavProxy to replicate the connection to other links like: 
`mavproxy.py --master tcp:127.0.0.1:5760 --sitl 127.0.0.1:5501 --out 127.0.0.1:14550 --out 127.0.0.1:14551`

APM Planner should automatically connect to one of the out links from above command. 
 
#### c) Now run the required python drone script drone_AUTO.py or drone_GUIDED.py as follows: 
 
`python drone_GUIDED.py --connect udp:127.0.0.1:14551` 
 
or 
 
`python drone_AUTO.py --connect udp:127.0.0.1:14551`

Monitor the drone in APM Planner and terminal outputs. For detailed terminal outputs view the Master.log generated by the code.
